in kathmandu the sorcerer carcilius and
his
zealots enter the secret compound
camartage and behead its librarian
they steal a few pages from an ancient
mystical text belonging to the ancient
one
a long-lived sorcerer who has taught
every student at camartage
including kycilius in the mystic arts
the ancient one pursues the traitors but
kaiselius and his followers escape
in new york city stephen strange a
wealthy
acclaimed and arrogant neurosurgeon
severely injures his hands in a car
crash
leaving him unable to operate fellow
surgeon christine palmer tries to help
him move on
but strange vainly pursues experimental
surgeries to heal his hands
strange learns about jonathan pangbourne
a paraplegic who mysteriously regained
use of his legs
panborne directs strange to comatage
where he is taken in by mordo a sorcerer
under the ancient
one the ancient one demonstrates her
power to strange
revealing the astral plane and other
dimensions such as the mirror dimension
she reluctantly agrees to train strange
whose arrogance
and ambition remind her of kicillus
strange studies under the ancient one
and mordo
and from ancient books in the library
that is now guarded by master wong
strange learns that earth is protected
from threats from other dimensions by a
shield generated from three buildings
called
sanctums in new york city london
and hong kong which are all directly
accessible from camartage
the sorcerer's task is to protect the
sanctums
though pangborne instead chose to
channel mystical energy only into
walking again
strange progresses quickly and secretly
reads the text from which kaiselius
stole
pages learning to bend time with the
mystical eye of agamotto
mordo and wong worn strange against
breaking the laws of nature
drawing a comparison to kaiserious
desire for eternal life
kacilius uses the stolen pages to
contact dormomu of the dark dimension
where time is non-existent kacilius
destroys the london sanctum to weaken
earth's protection
the zealots then attack the new york
sanctum killing its guardian
but strange holds them off with the help
of the cloak of levitation
only to be critically injured during a
skirmish
he teleports himself back to the
hospital where palmer saves him
upon returning to the sanctum strange
reveals to mordo that the ancient one
has been drawing
power from the dark dimension to sustain
her long life
and mordo becomes disillusioned with the
ancient one
after a fight in the mirror dimension of
new york kaiselius mortally wounds the
ancient one and escapes to hong kong
before dying she tells strange that he
too will have to bend the rules to
complement
mordo's steadfast nature in order to
defeat kaiselius
strange and mordo arrive in hong kong to
find wang dead
the sanctum destroyed and the dark
dimension engulfing earth
strange uses the eye to reverse time and
save wong
then enters the dark dimension and
creates a time loop around himself and
dormammu
after repeatedly killing strange to no
avail dormammu finally gives into
strange's demand that he permanently
leave earth alone and take kycilius and
his
zealots with him in return for strange
breaking the loop
disillusioned by strange and the ancient
one defying nature's laws
mordo renounces his sorcerer career and
departs
strange returns the aitaka mataji and
takes up residence in the new york
sanctum to continue his studies with
wong
in a mid-credits scene strange decides
to help
thor who has brought his brother loki to
earth to search for their father
odin in a post-credits scene mordo
confronts pangborne and steals the
mystical energy he uses to walk
telling him that earth has too many
sorcerers